Now before we fill the favorites tab with life, which means that we'll have to write some logic for this
app,
I want to focus on adding a drawer which is the other major navigation feature Flutter gives us which
we haven't had a look at yet.
So let's add a drawer and let's add it here on the TabsScreen in this appBar here next to your favorite
or categories depending on which page we loaded,
I want to have this hamburger icon which opens up a drawer.
Now thankfully, Flutter makes adding such a feature
really simple. You add a drawer by simply going to your scaffold, not to the appBar but to the scaffold
and there you can add a drawer argument. Now the drawer argument typically takes a drawer widget which is
a widget built into Flutter, which automatically gives you a drawer with a nice backdrop, backdrop.
is that thing that greys out the background behind the drawer and allows you to add content to that drawer.
Now on that drawer, you can add any content you want, any widgets you want, for example to start really simple,
I'll just add a child widget here where I say the drawer.
Now let's see what this does if I add this simple drawer, just one line of code added,
this line of code here gives us this hamburger icon, automatically managed by Flutter and if we
tap it, this drawer slides open, you see the nice backdrop,
this grey background which you can tap to close the drawer and you see behind the status bar at the top,
the drawer text here, you can also close the drawer by swiping.
So this is what you get out of the box with this drawer widget,
now of course typically you would not just add a boring text here but a more meaningful content.
Now the content I do want to add here are essentially two buttons, two links
you could say that take us to different pages in our app.
One should always take us back here to this TabsScreen, so to our meals section and the other link
should take us to the filters
we can set, to filter for vegan or vegetarian food.
So these are the two links I want to have here,
so let's add them to this drawer now and since we'll add quite some content,
I'll not add that here but I'll actually create a new widget because you might remember splitting your
app into widgets is never a bad idea.
So in the widgets folder, I'll add a new widget and I'll name it main_drawer, the name as always
is up to you and that will be a stateless widget here.
In that stateless widget which I'll also name main drawer, I want to handle or I want to compose the content
for this drawer.
So that means that I of course return a drawer widget here and now the child of the drawer here as I mentioned
can be anything you want, you can build any content here into your drawer,
I want to have a column in here because I want to have a couple of items on top of each other from top to
bottom inside of that drawer. So let's add the children here and as always, you can of course style this
drawer however you want.
I want to have a little container at the beginning which has a height of 120 pixels
and a width of double infinity, which means it takes all the space, all the width it can get, which has
some padding, maybe of EdgeInsets.all 20
and again, I mentioned this over and over again but these are always values you can play around with and
you can style the way you want.
I'll add an alignment,
we have never done this before in the course, this controls how the child of the container is aligned
inside of the container
and here I want to align the content with Alignment.centerLeft to have it in the center but moved
all the way to the left, so vertically
it's in the center, horizontally
it's on the left. Now,
that's my container, in the container,
I want to have a child which should be a text widget where I say cooking up and of course you could
put any text in there, it's just some fancy text for our application here and I'll style this text a
little bit by providing my custom text style here, where I will set the font weight to let's say font weight
w900,
this picks a weight of 900.
If you inspect your options here on the font weight, you'll see that there you have shortcuts like bold
and normal but you can also specify a concrete weight, like weight 900 and if you remember in the
pubspec.yaml file, we set up a weight 900 for Raleway which is our default font for the app, for this very
thick Raleway font.
So I'm using that font style in the end here,
Raleway is the default font for the app so I don't need to set the font family here,
that's not required.
I will set the font size
however let's say to 30 and a colour to theme of context
primary colour and one other thing which I forgot up there, I want to add a background colour to the overall
container where I use my accent color. We can do this with the color argument on the container.
By the way, an alternative always is decoration with BoxDecoration where you then set the color,
this does the same as the color argument.
If you just want to set the color, there is no need to use this more complicated decoration approach,
only do that if you also want to set some other decoration like a border.
If you do use decoration however, you have to set the color
also through decoration and not through the color key, otherwise you would get an error by Flutter.
Here, I only want to set the color though so there is no need to use the decoration.
With that, we have no links in our drawer yet,
so below that container which basically creates a heading at the top of the drawer,
let's now work on the concrete links, on the buttons
we can click.
First of all, I'll add a SizedBox with a height of 20 to add some spacing between our
header here and now the concrete content
and here you can of course again add whatever you want,
what looks particularly good in drawers in my opinion
are list tiles.
So I'll add a ListTile here and on that ListTile, I'll set an icon at the beginning with the leading argument,
with icons restaurant which I think fits the meal theme pretty well,
where I also will give this icon a size of 26,
this basically works like a font size to make it a little bit bigger. And then add a title on the list
tile which holds a text widget where I say meals and where I of course also want to add a style.
So my own text style here, where in my case here I want to set the font family to RobotoCondensed
like this,
no typo there hopefully. Set the font size to 24, a little bit smaller than the icon and the font way
to FontWeight.bold.
Now as a side note, w700 would be the same like FontWeight.bold, so if you want that default bold style
however, you can of course just use that.
Now very important now,
besides leading and title, I now also want to register taps and conveniently the ListTile has an onTap
argument where we can register a function that should be triggered when we tap here and in here, I soon
want to do something to go to a different page.
Now let me copy that ListTile here and create another one, here not with the restaurant icon but
with the settings icon which is this gear icon here and then here, I'll say filters or settings or whatever
you want to use,
same text style and therefore yes,
you could of course also use a builder method here,
why don't we do it since we learned it.
Let's cut the ListTile and add a new method here in the main drawer which returns a widget, build
ListTile which then simply returns our ListTile here
and of course, we have a dynamic title so that should be passed in as an argument and the icon
data should also be passed in, what you pass to an icon here, what's returned by icons is of type icon
data, as you can see if you hover over icon, then you see that it needs icon data for its icon,
so that's what I also expect to get here because that's different for every ListTile.
And then here, instead of saying meals, I can use the title argument we're getting and instead of using
icons restaurant, I use the icon
we're getting here. With that, we can use the buildListTile method down there and pass in meals here
for the first ListTile and then icons.restaurant which gives us such icon data and then do
the same here for the second ListTile, delete all of that and instead call buildListTile where we
have
filters and use icons settings.
Now also important,
I did mention this before but it is important to keep in mind, instead of using a builder method, you
could of course also put that into a separate widget which you use and it might even be a widget which
you only stored in that same file.
Normally, we have one file per widget but if you have a widget which you only use in conjunction with
this widget here, you could definitely store that extra widget in the same file.
So using a widget instead of a builder method would be totally fine,
generally there is no difference,
that would change a little bit if in that widget you could potentially create here, you would maybe change
some state or use the theme, so something which could trigger the build method of the surrounding
widget, then putting this into a separate widget would be good because then only this widgets build method
would be triggered and not this overall build method. Since
here however we have nothing that could trigger the build method,
we can also use a builder function. So that's just a tiny thing
you could keep in mind if you wanted to optimize your app. For example because I'm just talking about
it, in the MealDetailScreen widget, there buildSectionTitle uses theme of and therefore it could
be an idea to put this into separate widget,
again as I said maybe store it in the same file so that only that widget's build method would be triggered
if the theme changes.
Now it's of course important to keep in mind that in our app however, the theme will never change,
so for this app that wouldn't matter, it wouldn't make a difference
and besides that, we're also using the theme here in our main build method anyways so that would be triggered
anyways. So it could be outsourced but it wouldn't make a difference here
but let's go back to our drawer now, to our drawer widget.
We have our buildListTile method,
we're building the list tiles here,
now I'd say it's of course time to also see something on the screen.
And for that, let's use our main drawer here in the TabsScreen on that drawer argument in the scaffold.
So here instead of creating a new drawer, I'll use main drawer, the custom widget we just worked on
and of course for that to be available here, we need to import it with that import syntax, go up one level,
go into the widgets folder and then import main_drawer.dart. With that, we can assign the main drawer
here and now if we go back to our app, we open the drawer, we should see this custom drawer which in my
opinion looks quite nice and we can tap these items but for now, of course nothing's happening there.
Let's change that in the next lectures.